Now we want to move on to how we control
these changes in the abstraction of our Cloud of systems.
To do that, we need to use conditionals.
A conditional is something where we have a variety of means of doing this,
we need to first register the output of another command,
and then place that into a variable,
and then being able to take that output and bring that into a usable form.
So for the example that we have here,
we are looking at installing Apache.
Apache is one of those things where you'd expect,
it's just a package.
It should be named about the same everywhere, but it's not.
Under a Debian system,
you call it apache2, stereotypically.
Under and Red Hat based system,
you call HTTPD and when we're talking about you call HTTPD,
this is the way it's called in the package repository.
So this is an important distinction when you go about using
your configuration management system to bring your systems into a desired state.
So here, we are using as a control a when-state, the ansible_facts['os_family'].
Then we're setting it to present.
Note that with the state,
we have a number of other options such as absent.
So now we've just finished up with our conditional when-condition,
and we're going to move into a little bit more depth on
these ansible facts because we need to understand what we have available to work with.
Next up, we have conditional classification.
This is getting into what you have available natively in any given environment.
It doesn't matter whether this is a Cloud system or a physical system,
any like size of the system be it a cell phone or be it some big supercomputer.
Every system is going to have
a different number of variables that you will have available to you,
and these are the built-in ansible variables.
So let's take a look at some of the most common ones,
which are obviously like hostname,
IPv4 address, architecture, kernel.
So these are going to be pretty much universal,
but there's a huge number of them.
The important thing is to evaluate these on your given system.
In addition as we addressed earlier,
you can set any variable as you need to that is outside of this namespace of
built-in variables to do whatever task that you're trying to control or automate.